sdk/ic_vetkd_sdk_utils/README.md, before:

# VetKD SDK - SDK Utils

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> These support libraries are under active development and are subject to change. Access to the repositories have been opened to allow for early feedback. Please check back regularly for updates.

This package provides cryptographic utilities for working with **VetKey** (Verifiably Encrypted Threshold Key) derivation on the **Internet Computer (IC)**. It includes support for **BLS12-381 operations**, **transport secret keys**, **derived public keys**, **identity-based encryption (IBE)**, and **symmetric key derivation**.

## Installation

This package is not yet published to npm.

## Usage

### 1. Generate a Transport Secret Key

A **transport secret key** is used to decrypt VetKD-derived keys.

```ts
import { TransportSecretKey } from "ic_vetkd_sdk_utils";

const tsk = TransportSecretKey.random();
console.log("Public Key:", tsk.publicKeyBytes());
```

### 2. Deserialize a Derived Public Key

```ts
import { DerivedPublicKey } from 'ic_vetkd_sdk_utils';

const dpkBytes = new Uint8Array([...]); // Obtained from the IC
const dpk = DerivedPublicKey.deserialize(dpkBytes);
```

### 3. Second-Stage Key Derivation

```ts
const context = new Uint8Array([1, 2, 3]);
const derivedKey = dpk.deriveKey(context);
console.log("Derived Public Key:", derivedKey.publicKeyBytes());
```

### 4. VetKey Decryption

```ts
import { EncryptedKey, VetKey } from 'ic_vetkd_sdk_utils';

const encKeyBytes = new Uint8Array([...]); // Encrypted key from the IC
const encryptedKey = new EncryptedKey(encKeyBytes);
const vetKey = encryptedKey.decryptAndVerify(tsk, dpk, context);
console.log('Decrypted VetKey:', vetKey.signatureBytes());
```

### 5. Identity-Based Encryption (IBE)

#### Encrypting a Message

```ts
import { IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext } from "ic_vetkd_sdk_utils";

const message = new TextEncoder().encode("Secret message");
const seed = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(32));
const ciphertext = IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext.encrypt(
  dpk,
  context,
  message,
  seed,
);
const serializedCiphertext = ciphertext.serialize();
```

#### Decrypting a Message

```ts
const deserializedCiphertext =
  IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext.deserialize(serializedCiphertext);
const decryptedMessage = deserializedCiphertext.decrypt(vetKey);
console.log("Decrypted Message:", new TextDecoder().decode(decryptedMessage));
```

## API Reference

### `TransportSecretKey`

- `static random(): TransportSecretKey` → Creates a random transport secret key.
- `publicKeyBytes(): Uint8Array` → Returns the transport public key in bytes.
- `getSecretKey(): Uint8Array` → Returns the transport secret key bytes.

### `DerivedPublicKey`

- `static deserialize(bytes: Uint8Array): DerivedPublicKey` → Parses a derived public key from its serialized form.
- `deriveKey(context: Uint8Array): DerivedPublicKey` → Performs second-stage derivation to generate a context-specific key.
- `publicKeyBytes(): Uint8Array` → Returns the derived public key in bytes.

### `EncryptedKey`

- `constructor(bytes: Uint8Array)` → Parses an encrypted key returned by the IC.
- `decryptAndVerify(tsk: TransportSecretKey, dpk: DerivedPublicKey, derivation_id: Uint8Array): VetKey` → Decrypts an encrypted key and verifies its validity.

### `VetKey`

- `signatureBytes(): Uint8Array` → Returns the raw signature bytes of the VetKey.
- `deriveSymmetricKey(domainSep: string, outputLength: number): Uint8Array` → Derives a symmetric key from the VetKey.
- `async asHkdfCryptoKey(): Promise<CryptoKey>` → Converts the VetKey to a WebCrypto HKDF key.
- `async deriveAesGcmCryptoKey(domainSep: string): Promise<CryptoKey>` → Derives an AES-GCM key using HKDF.
- `async encryptMessage(message: Uint8Array | string, domainSep: string): Promise<Uint8Array>` → Encrypts a message using AES-GCM.
- `async decryptMessage(ciphertext: Uint8Array, domainSep: string): Promise<Uint8Array>` → Decrypts an AES-GCM encrypted message.
- `static deserialize(bytes: Uint8Array): VetKey` → Parses a VetKey from its serialized signature.

### `IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext`

- `static encrypt(dpk: DerivedPublicKey, derivation_id: Uint8Array, msg: Uint8Array, seed: Uint8Array): IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext` → Encrypts a message using Identity-Based Encryption.
- `static deserialize(bytes: Uint8Array): IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext` → Parses an IBE ciphertext.
- `decrypt(vetkd: VetKey): Uint8Array` → Decrypts an IBE-encrypted message using the VetKey.

## Security Considerations

- **Use Cryptographically Secure RNG:** Ensure all key generation and encryption operations use secure random number generation.
- **Keep Transport Secret Keys Private:** Never expose the transport secret key as it is required for decrypting VetKeys.
- **Unique Domain Separators:** Use unique domain separators for symmetric key derivation to prevent cross-context attacks.
- **Authenticated Encryption:** Always verify ciphertext integrity when decrypting to prevent unauthorized modifications.
- **Secure Key Storage:** If storing symmetric keys, ensure they are stored in a secure environment such as a hardware security module (HSM) or encrypted storage.

Commit message:

Kristofer/add call to feedback action (#25)
* Adding call to action for feedback sharing

* Correct url

* have -> has

sdk/ic_vetkd_sdk_utils/README.md, after:

# VetKD SDK - SDK Utils

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> These support libraries are under active development and are subject to change. Access to the repositories has been opened to allow for early feedback. Check back regularly for updates.
>
> Please share your feedback on the [developer forum](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/threshold-key-derivation-privacy-on-the-ic/16560/179).

This package provides cryptographic utilities for working with **VetKey** (Verifiably Encrypted Threshold Key) derivation on the **Internet Computer (IC)**. It includes support for **BLS12-381 operations**, **transport secret keys**, **derived public keys**, **identity-based encryption (IBE)**, and **symmetric key derivation**.

## Installation

This package is not yet published to npm.

## Usage

### 1. Generate a Transport Secret Key

A **transport secret key** is used to decrypt VetKD-derived keys.

```ts
import { TransportSecretKey } from "ic_vetkd_sdk_utils";

const tsk = TransportSecretKey.random();
console.log("Public Key:", tsk.publicKeyBytes());
```

### 2. Deserialize a Derived Public Key

```ts
import { DerivedPublicKey } from 'ic_vetkd_sdk_utils';

const dpkBytes = new Uint8Array([...]); // Obtained from the IC
const dpk = DerivedPublicKey.deserialize(dpkBytes);
```

### 3. Second-Stage Key Derivation

```ts
const context = new Uint8Array([1, 2, 3]);
const derivedKey = dpk.deriveKey(context);
console.log("Derived Public Key:", derivedKey.publicKeyBytes());
```

### 4. VetKey Decryption

```ts
import { EncryptedKey, VetKey } from 'ic_vetkd_sdk_utils';

const encKeyBytes = new Uint8Array([...]); // Encrypted key from the IC
const encryptedKey = new EncryptedKey(encKeyBytes);
const vetKey = encryptedKey.decryptAndVerify(tsk, dpk, context);
console.log('Decrypted VetKey:', vetKey.signatureBytes());
```

### 5. Identity-Based Encryption (IBE)

#### Encrypting a Message

```ts
import { IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext } from "ic_vetkd_sdk_utils";

const message = new TextEncoder().encode("Secret message");
const seed = crypto.getRandomValues(new Uint8Array(32));
const ciphertext = IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext.encrypt(
  dpk,
  context,
  message,
  seed,
);
const serializedCiphertext = ciphertext.serialize();
```

#### Decrypting a Message

```ts
const deserializedCiphertext =
  IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext.deserialize(serializedCiphertext);
const decryptedMessage = deserializedCiphertext.decrypt(vetKey);
console.log("Decrypted Message:", new TextDecoder().decode(decryptedMessage));
```

## API Reference

### `TransportSecretKey`

- `static random(): TransportSecretKey` → Creates a random transport secret key.
- `publicKeyBytes(): Uint8Array` → Returns the transport public key in bytes.
- `getSecretKey(): Uint8Array` → Returns the transport secret key bytes.

### `DerivedPublicKey`

- `static deserialize(bytes: Uint8Array): DerivedPublicKey` → Parses a derived public key from its serialized form.
- `deriveKey(context: Uint8Array): DerivedPublicKey` → Performs second-stage derivation to generate a context-specific key.
- `publicKeyBytes(): Uint8Array` → Returns the derived public key in bytes.

### `EncryptedKey`

- `constructor(bytes: Uint8Array)` → Parses an encrypted key returned by the IC.
- `decryptAndVerify(tsk: TransportSecretKey, dpk: DerivedPublicKey, derivation_id: Uint8Array): VetKey` → Decrypts an encrypted key and verifies its validity.

### `VetKey`

- `signatureBytes(): Uint8Array` → Returns the raw signature bytes of the VetKey.
- `deriveSymmetricKey(domainSep: string, outputLength: number): Uint8Array` → Derives a symmetric key from the VetKey.
- `async asHkdfCryptoKey(): Promise<CryptoKey>` → Converts the VetKey to a WebCrypto HKDF key.
- `async deriveAesGcmCryptoKey(domainSep: string): Promise<CryptoKey>` → Derives an AES-GCM key using HKDF.
- `async encryptMessage(message: Uint8Array | string, domainSep: string): Promise<Uint8Array>` → Encrypts a message using AES-GCM.
- `async decryptMessage(ciphertext: Uint8Array, domainSep: string): Promise<Uint8Array>` → Decrypts an AES-GCM encrypted message.
- `static deserialize(bytes: Uint8Array): VetKey` → Parses a VetKey from its serialized signature.

### `IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext`

- `static encrypt(dpk: DerivedPublicKey, derivation_id: Uint8Array, msg: Uint8Array, seed: Uint8Array): IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext` → Encrypts a message using Identity-Based Encryption.
- `static deserialize(bytes: Uint8Array): IdentityBasedEncryptionCiphertext` → Parses an IBE ciphertext.
- `decrypt(vetkd: VetKey): Uint8Array` → Decrypts an IBE-encrypted message using the VetKey.

## Security Considerations

- **Use Cryptographically Secure RNG:** Ensure all key generation and encryption operations use secure random number generation.
- **Keep Transport Secret Keys Private:** Never expose the transport secret key as it is required for decrypting VetKeys.
- **Unique Domain Separators:** Use unique domain separators for symmetric key derivation to prevent cross-context attacks.
- **Authenticated Encryption:** Always verify ciphertext integrity when decrypting to prevent unauthorized modifications.
- **Secure Key Storage:** If storing symmetric keys, ensure they are stored in a secure environment such as a hardware security module (HSM) or encrypted storage.
