cdk/key_manager/README.md, before:

# VetKey CDK - KeyManager

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> These support libraries are under active development and are subject to change. Access to the repositories have been opened to allow for early feedback. Please check back regularly for updates.

The **KeyManager** is a support library for **VetKeys**, an Internet Computer (ICP) feature that enables the derivation of **encrypted cryptographic keys**. This library simplifies the process of key retrieval, encryption, and controlled sharing, ensuring secure and efficient key management for canisters and users.

For an introduction to **VetKeys**, refer to the [VetKeys Overview](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/building-apps/network-features/encryption/VetKeys).

## Core Features

The **KeyManager** support library provides the following core functionalities:

- **Request an Encrypted Key:** Users can derive any number of **encrypted cryptographic keys**, secured using a **transport key**. Each key is associated with a unique **key id**.
- **Manage Key Sharing:** A user can **share their keys** with other users while controlling access rights.
- **Access Control Management:** Users can define and enforce **fine-grained permissions** (read, write, manage) for each key.
- **Uses Stable Storage:** The library persists key access information using **StableBTreeMap**, ensuring reliability across canister upgrades.

## KeyManager Architecture

The **KeyManager** consists of two primary components:

1. **Access Control Map** (`access_control`): Maps `(Caller, KeyId)` to `AccessRights`, defining permissions for each user.
2. **Shared Keys Map** (`shared_keys`): Tracks which users have access to shared keys.

## API Usage

### 1. Initialize the KeyManager

The **KeyManager** must be initialized with two virtual memories, for the access control and shared keys maps. The following code snippet demonstrates how to initialize the **KeyManager** when the canister is created:

```rust
use ic_stable_structures::{
    memory_manager::{MemoryId, MemoryManager, VirtualMemory},
    DefaultMemoryImpl,
};
use std::cell::RefCell;

type Memory = VirtualMemory<DefaultMemoryImpl>;

thread_local! {
    static MEMORY_MANAGER: RefCell<MemoryManager<DefaultMemoryImpl>> =
        RefCell::new(MemoryManager::init(DefaultMemoryImpl::default()));
}

#[ic_cdk::init]
fn init() {
    let access_control_memory: Memory = MEMORY_MANAGER.with(|m| m.borrow().get(MemoryId::new(0)));
    let shared_keys_memory: Memory = MEMORY_MANAGER.with(|m| m.borrow().get(MemoryId::new(1)));
    KeyManager::try_init(access_control_memory, shared_keys_memory).expect("failed to initialize memory");
}
```

### 2. Retrieve an Encrypted Key

```rust
pub async fn get_encrypted_vetkey(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
    transport_key: TransportKey
) -> Result<VetKey, String>;
```

Returns an **encrypted cryptographic key** for the caller, secured with a transport key, using the `vetkd_derive_key` management canister API call.

### 3. Manage Key Sharing and Access Rights

#### a) Grant or Modify Access Rights

```rust
pub fn set_user_rights(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
    user: Principal,
    access_rights: AccessRights,
) -> Result<Option<AccessRights>, String>;
```

- **Allows the key owner or a manager to grant/restrict access**.
- The caller must have **management access** to modify rights.
- The key owner **cannot** change their own rights.

#### b) Remove a User's Access

```rust
pub fn remove_user(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
    user: Principal,
) -> Result<Option<AccessRights>, String>;
```

- Revokes a user's access to a shared key.
- The key owner **cannot** remove themselves.

#### c) Check If a Key is Shared

```rust
pub fn is_key_shared(key_id: KeyId) -> Result<bool, String>;
```

- Returns `true` if a key has been shared with at least one user.

#### d) List All Shared Keys a User Has Access To

```rust
pub fn get_accessible_shared_key_ids(caller: Principal) -> Vec<KeyId>;
```

- Retrieves all keys accessible by the caller.

#### e) Get All Users Who Have Access to a Key

```rust
pub fn get_shared_user_access_for_key(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
) -> Result<Vec<(Principal, AccessRights)>, String>;
```

- Lists all users who have access to a specific key along with their permissions.

#### f) Retrieve a User’s Access Rights

```rust
pub fn get_user_rights(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
    user: Principal,
) -> Result<Option<AccessRights>, String>;
```

- Returns the specific access rights a user has to a key.

## Access Rights

The system enforces access control based on `AccessRights`, allowing fine-grained control over key usage:

- **Read**: User can retrieve the encrypted key.
- **Write**: User can update the key.
- **Manage**: User can share/revoke access.

## Example Use Case

1. **User A** requests a key from KeyManager.
2. KeyManager verifies permissions and derives an **encrypted cryptographic key**.
3. **User A** securely shares access with **User B** using `set_user_rights`.
4. **User B** retrieves the key securely via `get_encrypted_vetkey`.

## Security Considerations

- Keys are derived **on demand** and encrypted before transmission.
- Only authorized users can access shared keys.
- Stable storage ensures keys persist across canister upgrades.
- Access control logic ensures only authorized users modify or retrieve keys.

## Conclusion

The **KeyManager** simplifies the usage of **VetKeys** on the ICP, providing a secure and efficient mechanism for **cryptographic key derivation, sharing, and management**.

Commit message:

Kristofer/add call to feedback action (#25)
* Adding call to action for feedback sharing

* Correct url

* have -> has

cdk/key_manager/README.md, after:

# VetKey CDK - KeyManager

> [!IMPORTANT]  
> These support libraries are under active development and are subject to change. Access to the repositories has been opened to allow for early feedback. Check back regularly for updates.
>
> Please share your feedback on the [developer forum](https://forum.dfinity.org/t/threshold-key-derivation-privacy-on-the-ic/16560/179).

The **KeyManager** is a support library for **VetKeys**, an Internet Computer (ICP) feature that enables the derivation of **encrypted cryptographic keys**. This library simplifies the process of key retrieval, encryption, and controlled sharing, ensuring secure and efficient key management for canisters and users.

For an introduction to **VetKeys**, refer to the [VetKeys Overview](https://internetcomputer.org/docs/building-apps/network-features/encryption/VetKeys).

## Core Features

The **KeyManager** support library provides the following core functionalities:

- **Request an Encrypted Key:** Users can derive any number of **encrypted cryptographic keys**, secured using a **transport key**. Each key is associated with a unique **key id**.
- **Manage Key Sharing:** A user can **share their keys** with other users while controlling access rights.
- **Access Control Management:** Users can define and enforce **fine-grained permissions** (read, write, manage) for each key.
- **Uses Stable Storage:** The library persists key access information using **StableBTreeMap**, ensuring reliability across canister upgrades.

## KeyManager Architecture

The **KeyManager** consists of two primary components:

1. **Access Control Map** (`access_control`): Maps `(Caller, KeyId)` to `AccessRights`, defining permissions for each user.
2. **Shared Keys Map** (`shared_keys`): Tracks which users have access to shared keys.

## API Usage

### 1. Initialize the KeyManager

The **KeyManager** must be initialized with two virtual memories, for the access control and shared keys maps. The following code snippet demonstrates how to initialize the **KeyManager** when the canister is created:

```rust
use ic_stable_structures::{
    memory_manager::{MemoryId, MemoryManager, VirtualMemory},
    DefaultMemoryImpl,
};
use std::cell::RefCell;

type Memory = VirtualMemory<DefaultMemoryImpl>;

thread_local! {
    static MEMORY_MANAGER: RefCell<MemoryManager<DefaultMemoryImpl>> =
        RefCell::new(MemoryManager::init(DefaultMemoryImpl::default()));
}

#[ic_cdk::init]
fn init() {
    let access_control_memory: Memory = MEMORY_MANAGER.with(|m| m.borrow().get(MemoryId::new(0)));
    let shared_keys_memory: Memory = MEMORY_MANAGER.with(|m| m.borrow().get(MemoryId::new(1)));
    KeyManager::try_init(access_control_memory, shared_keys_memory).expect("failed to initialize memory");
}
```

### 2. Retrieve an Encrypted Key

```rust
pub async fn get_encrypted_vetkey(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
    transport_key: TransportKey
) -> Result<VetKey, String>;
```

Returns an **encrypted cryptographic key** for the caller, secured with a transport key, using the `vetkd_derive_key` management canister API call.

### 3. Manage Key Sharing and Access Rights

#### a) Grant or Modify Access Rights

```rust
pub fn set_user_rights(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
    user: Principal,
    access_rights: AccessRights,
) -> Result<Option<AccessRights>, String>;
```

- **Allows the key owner or a manager to grant/restrict access**.
- The caller must have **management access** to modify rights.
- The key owner **cannot** change their own rights.

#### b) Remove a User's Access

```rust
pub fn remove_user(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
    user: Principal,
) -> Result<Option<AccessRights>, String>;
```

- Revokes a user's access to a shared key.
- The key owner **cannot** remove themselves.

#### c) Check If a Key is Shared

```rust
pub fn is_key_shared(key_id: KeyId) -> Result<bool, String>;
```

- Returns `true` if a key has been shared with at least one user.

#### d) List All Shared Keys a User Has Access To

```rust
pub fn get_accessible_shared_key_ids(caller: Principal) -> Vec<KeyId>;
```

- Retrieves all keys accessible by the caller.

#### e) Get All Users Who Have Access to a Key

```rust
pub fn get_shared_user_access_for_key(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
) -> Result<Vec<(Principal, AccessRights)>, String>;
```

- Lists all users who have access to a specific key along with their permissions.

#### f) Retrieve a User’s Access Rights

```rust
pub fn get_user_rights(
    caller: Principal,
    key_id: KeyId,
    user: Principal,
) -> Result<Option<AccessRights>, String>;
```

- Returns the specific access rights a user has to a key.

## Access Rights

The system enforces access control based on `AccessRights`, allowing fine-grained control over key usage:

- **Read**: User can retrieve the encrypted key.
- **Write**: User can update the key.
- **Manage**: User can share/revoke access.

## Example Use Case

1. **User A** requests a key from KeyManager.
2. KeyManager verifies permissions and derives an **encrypted cryptographic key**.
3. **User A** securely shares access with **User B** using `set_user_rights`.
4. **User B** retrieves the key securely via `get_encrypted_vetkey`.

## Security Considerations

- Keys are derived **on demand** and encrypted before transmission.
- Only authorized users can access shared keys.
- Stable storage ensures keys persist across canister upgrades.
- Access control logic ensures only authorized users modify or retrieve keys.

## Conclusion

The **KeyManager** simplifies the usage of **VetKeys** on the ICP, providing a secure and efficient mechanism for **cryptographic key derivation, sharing, and management**.
